>> Stewart: ON THIS EDITION FOR
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 18:
PRESIDENT-ELECT DONALD TRUMP
PREPARES FOR TOMORROW'S
ELECTORAL COLLEGE VOTE.
JEFF GREENFIELD ON THE CHANGING
CENTERS OF POWER IN WASHINGTON.
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
NORTH KOREAN DEFECTORS IN SOUTH
KOREA USING AMERICAN MOVIES AND
TV SHOWS TO UNDERMINE A
REPRESSIVE REGIME.
>> (translated): IF WE FIND A
TELEVISION DRAMA THAT WE SENT
HAS BEEN BANNED, WE KNOW THAT
IT HAS BEEN IMPACTFUL.
>> Stewart: NEXT ON "PBS
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND."
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
ALISON STEWART.
>> Stewart: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
TOMORROW, AN INSTITUTION
ENSHRINED IN THE U.S.
CONSTITUTION-- THE ELECTORAL
COLLEGE-- IS EXPECTED TO RATIFY
DONALD J. TRUMP'S ELECTION AS
THE 45TH PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES.
MEETING IN THEIR SEPARATE
STATES, 538 ELECTORS WILL CAST
THEIR VOTES.
ONLY ONE OF THE 306 ELECTORS
AWARDED TO MISTER TRUMP HAS
DECLARED PUBLICLY HE WON'T VOTE
FOR HIM, LEAVING THE PRESIDENT-
ELECT WELL PAST THE 270
ELECTORAL VOTES NEEDED TO BE
INAUGURATED JANUARY 20TH.
LAST NIGHT IN ALABAMA, TRUMP
COMPLETED HIS SO-CALLED "THANK
YOU" TOUR OF SOME STATES THAT
VOTED FOR HIM.
BUT TODAY, THE 2008 REPUBLICAN
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEE-- ARIZONA
SENATOR JOHN McCAIN-- RENEWED
HIS CALL FOR A SINGLE, SPECIAL
CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE TO
INVESTIGATE RUSSIAN INTERFERENCE
IN THE ELECTION, SPECIFICALLY
THE HACKING OF DEMOCRATIC PARTY
AND CLINTON CAMPAIGN EMAILS.
>> THE RESPONSIBILITIES FOR
CYBER IS SPREAD OVER ABOUT FOUR
DIFFERENT COMMITTEES IN THE
SENATE, AND EACH DOING THEIR OWN
THING, FRANKLY, IS NOT GOING TO
BE THE MOST EFFICIENT WAY OF
ARRIVING AT A CONCLUSION.
>> Stewart: INCOMING WHITE HOUSE
CHIEF OF STAFF REINCE PRIEBUS
SAID TODAY THE PRESIDENT-ELECT
IS WAITING TO SEE THE FINAL
REPORT FROM THE FBI AND CIA
ABOUT RUSSIAN INTERFERENCE, AND
DENIED THERE WAS ANY CONTACT OR
COORDINATION BETWEEN THE TRUMP
CAMPAIGN OR TRUMP ASSOCIATES AND
THE RUSSIANS.
>> OF COURSE, WE DIDN'T
INTERFACE WITH THE RUSSIANS.
I MEAN, THIS WHOLE THING IS A
SPIN JOB.
AND I THINK WHAT THE DEMOCRATS
OUGHT TO DO IS LOOK IN THE
MIRROR AND FACE THE REALITY THAT
THEY LOST THE ELECTION.
AND THEY LOST THE ELECTION
BECAUSE THEY'RE SO AND
COMPLETELY OUT OF TOUCH WITH THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE THAT THEY'RE SO
SHELL-SHOCKED AND THEY CAN'T
BELIEVE IT.
>> Stewart: TODAY, HILLARY
CLINTON CAMPAIGN CHAIRMAN JOHN
PODESTA SAID AN INDEPENDENT
INVESTIGATION IS NEEDED TO FIND
OUT WHAT, IF ANYTHING, THE TRUMP
CAMPAIGN KNEW.
>> I THINK REALLY WHAT MR. TRUMP
KNEW BUT WHAT A TRUMP INC KNOW
AND WHEN DID THEY KNOW IT, WERE
THEY IN TOUCH WITH THE RUSSIANS.
I THINK THOSE ARE STILL OPEN
QUESTIONS AND THE ELECTORS HAVE
A RIGHT TO KNOW WHAT THE ANSWERS
ARE.
>> Stewart: SECURITY FORCES IN
JORDAN HAVE STORMED A POPULAR
TOURIST SITE WHERE GUNMEN KILLED
TEN PEOPLE TODAY AND HELD A
NUMBER OF TOURISTS HOSTAGE.
IN THE SOUTHERN CITY OF KARAK,
90 MILES SOUTH OF AMMAN, GUNMEN
ATTACKED A MEDIEVAL CRUSADER
CASTLE, KILLING A CANADIAN
TOURIST, TWO OTHER CIVILIANS,
AND SEVEN POLICE OFFICERS.
AFTER A STANDOFF THAT CONTINUED
PAST NIGHTFALL, SECURITY FORCES
EXCHANGED GUNFIRE WITH THE
ATTACKERS, AND FREED TOURISTS
WHO HAD BEEN TRAPPED.
JORDAN'S GOVERNMENT OFFERED NO
IMMEDIATE INFORMATION ABOUT
THEM.
ISIS HAS AGAIN FATALLY STRUCK AN
ARMY BASE IN YEMEN.
OFFICIALS SAY AT LEAST 52
SOLDIERS WERE KILLED AND MORE
THAN 60 WERE INJURED WHEN A
SUICIDE BOMBER BLEW HIMSELF UP
AT THE BASE IN ADEN, WHICH IS
THE CAPITAL OF YEMEN'S
INTERNATIONALLY-RECOGNIZED
GOVERNMENT IN EXILE.
THE SOLDIERS HAD BEEN LINED UP
TO COLLECT THEIR PAY.
ISIS CLAIMED RESPONSIBILITY.
IT'S THE SAME BASE ISIS ATTACKED
LAST WEEK.
THE YEMENI GOVERNMENT, BACKED BY
A U.S.-SUPPORTED, SAUDI-LED
COALITION, HAS BEEN BATTLING
IRAN-BACKED SHIITE REBELS FOR 20
MONTHS.
TWENTY-THREE CHINESE CITIES ARE
MIDWAY THROUGH A FIVE-DAY RED
ALERT FOR SMOG POLLUTION.
A HAZE OF SMOG BLANKETED THE
CAPITAL OF BEIJING TODAY, WHERE
HUNDREDS OF COAL-FIRED FACTORIES
HAVE BEEN ORDERED TO STOP OR
CURTAIL PRODUCTION.
THE NUMBER OF CHILDREN
HOSPITALIZED WITH BREATHING
PROBLEMS ROSE SHARPLY.
POLICE CHECKED CAR LICENSE
PLATES-- FOR ODD OR EVEN
NUMBERS-- AS THE GOVERNMENT HAS
ORDERED HALF OF ALL CARS AND
TRUCKS TO STAY OFF THE ROAD.
EAST OF BEIJING, THE CITY OF
TIANJIN CANCELED SEVERAL DOZEN
AIRLINE FLIGHTS TODAY DUE TO
POOR VISIBILITY-- OF LESS THAN
500 METERS.
SINCE WINNING THE ELECTION SIX
WEEKS AGO, DONALD TRUMP HAS
NOMINATED MOST OF HIS CABINET
AND PICKED TOP WHITE HOUSE
STAFF, ALL KEY PLAYERS IN
SHAPING U.S. POLICY.
HE'LL ALSO HAVE REPUBLICAN
MAJORITIES IN BOTH HOUSES OF
CONGRESS ON HIS SIDE.
JOINING ME TO ANALYZE THE
BALANCE OF POWER IN WASHINGTON
IS "NEWSHOUR WEEKEND'S" JEFF
GREENFIELD.
ABOUT A MONTH AWAY, BUN THE
115th CONGRESS CONVENES FIRST
ON JANUARY 3rd.
THE DEMOCRATS HAVE A NEW
REALITY.
WHAT IS IT?
>> THE WEAKEST IN HOUSE OF
REPRESENTATIVES SINCE ABOUT
1930.
THEY ONLY PICKED UP HALF A DOZEN
SEATS, IT WAS HOMING TO BE
CLOSER, HARRY REID WHEN THEY
ABOLISHED THE FILIBUSTER THEY
DON'T HAVE THAT POWER THAT THEY
USED TO.
IN ADDITION, THE WHOLE BUNCH OF
DEMOCRATS ARE UP IN TWO YEARS
AND SOME OF THE RED STATES, IN
THE NATION.
NORTH DAKOTA, INDIANA, THOSE
DEMOCRATS WILL STAY WITH THE
MAJORITY OR THE MINORITY TO HELP
FIGHT TRUMP, THEY MAY BE UNDER A
LOT OF PRESSURE TO NOT TO DO IT.
WHEN YOU THINK THAT'S BAD, THE
STATE LEVEL, 28 IN REPUBLICAN
CONTROL, ONLY SIX IN DEMOCRATIC
CHROME.
LABOR, ABORTION, TAXES,
EDUCATION, THE REPUBLICANS
BASICALLY HOLD SWAY.
SO IF YOU'RE A DEMOCRAT YOU'RE
LOOKING UP FOR FROM A VERY DEEP
HOME.
>> Stewart: WHEN IT COMES TO
THE REPUBLICANS IT IS A MIXED
BAG HOWEVER WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT
ALLIANCES WITH THE NEW
PRESIDENT.
>> THIS IS WHERE THE NEW
CONGRESS CAN GET REALLY
INTERESTING.
I THINK 11 OF THEM REFUSE TO
ENDORSE TRUMP DURING THE
CAMPAIGN AND THERE ARE PLENTY OF
THEM THAT HAVE SERIOUS
OPPOSITION TO WHAT SOME OF
TRUMP'S APPOINTEES APPARENTLY
ARE PLANNING TO DO IN TERMS OF
RUSSIA.
JOHN McCAIN, LINDSEY GRAHAM
IS VERY HOSTILE TO THAT IDEA.
SO IF THE DEMOCRATS COULD STAY
UNITED ON APPOINTMENTS AND
ISSUES, THE WAY THE REPUBLICANS
DID UNDER OBAMA, IT WOULD ONLY
TAKE THREE REPUBLICANS CROSSING
THE AISLE TO BLOCK SOME OF
TRUMP'S INITIATIVES.
THEN YOU WOULD HAVE A SHIFTING
BALANCE BECAUSE THERE ARE SOME
CONSERVATIVE FISCAL REPUBLICANS
WHO ARE NOT GOING TO LIKE THE
IDEA SAY IF TRUMP LAUNCHES A BIG
INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT.
SO THE STORY MAY NOT BE TOLD OF
THE REPUBLICANS.
>> Stewart: YOU THINK WE NEED
TO PAY SPECIAL ATTENTION TO THE
FEDERAL COURT.
>> YES.
BECAUSE IF YOU LOOK BACK OVER
THE EIGHT YEARS OF OBAMA SOME OF
WHAT HE WANTED TO DO WAS BLOCKED
BY LAWSUITS, FILED BY STATE
ATTORNEYS GENERAL OR, IN AREAS
LIKE IMMIGRATION, THEIR LAWSUITS
AGAINST AFFORDABLE CARE ACT,
HELPED THAT BE ACT RESTRICTED IN
FORM OF MEDICAID EXPANSION.
DEMOCRATS IN CONGRESS OR
ATTORNEYS-GENERAL IN CALIFORNIA,
NEW YORK, STRONG DEMOCRATS,
TRYING TO BLOCK TRUMP IN COURT,
WHEN THEY ABOLISHED THE
FILIBUSTER, IT PUT SEVERAL ON
THE APPEALS COURT, APPEALS COURT
RIGHT BELOW THE SUPREME COURT
AND THEY NOW HAVE A MAJORITY.
SO UNTIL TRUMP CAN FILL THE
VACANCIES THAT EXIST OR UNTIL HE
GET THE NOM NIGH ON THE HIGH
COURT, THE COURTS COULD BE AN
OBSTACLE TO TRUMP'S LATEST
INITIATIVES.
>> Stewart: JEFF GREENFIELD,
THANK YOU FOR THE ANALYSIS.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Stewart: NORTH KOREA IS A
CLOSED SOCIETY-- A DICTATORSHIP
RULED SINCE WORLD WAR TWO BY THE
KIM FAMILY DYNASTY, WHICH
DEPRIVES ITS 25 MILLION CITIZENS
OF EVERYTHING FROM INFORMATION
TO ADEQUATE FOOD.
LARGE NUMBERS OF NORTH KOREANS,
PERHAPS HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS,
HAVE FLED THEIR HOMELAND.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
"NEWSHOUR WEEKEND" SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT KARLA MURTHY
REPORTS HOW DEFECTORS NOW LIVING
IN SOUTH KOREA ARE SMUGGLING
MEDIA TO ENCOURAGE OTHER NORTH
KOREANS TO ESCAPE.
>> Reporter: NORTH KOREA HAS
BEEN RULED BY THE TOTALITARIAN
REGIME OF THE KIM FAMILY DYNASTY
FOR THE LAST SEVEN DECADES.
HANDING POWER DOWN FROM
GRANDFATHER, TO FATHER, AND NOW
SON, KIM JONG-UN.
THE KIM REGIME HAS MAINTAINED
ITS GRIP ON NORTH KOREA BY
IMPRISONING ITS ENEMIES AND BY
CONTROLLING AND CENSORING THE
MASS MEDIA-- NEWSPAPERS, TV,
RADIO, WITH ONLY A PRIVILEGED
FEW GETTING ACCESS TO THE
INTERNET.
TV SHOWS ON STATE-RUN MEDIA TOUT
THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF NORTH
KOREANS AND THEIR LEADER.
EVEN AT THE BORDER, ANTHEMS
PRAISING THE KIM REGIME ARE
BLASTED INTO SOUTH KOREA, AS WE
SAW AND HEARD ON OUR RECENT TRIP
THERE.
BUT IN THE LAST FEW YEARS, NORTH
KOREAN DEFECTORS BASED IN SOUTH
KOREA HAVE BEEN UNDERMINING THE
COUNTRY'S INFORMATION BLACKOUT.
JUST A FEW MILES FROM HERE,
NEARLY 25 MILLION NORTH KOREANS
ARE LIVING UNDER TOTAL
GOVERNMENT CENSORSHIP.
ACTIVISTS HAVE BEEN SMUGGLING IN
FOREIGN TV SHOWS, MOVIES, E-
BOOKS TO GIVE NORTH KOREANS A
VIEW OF THE WORLD OUTSIDE THEIR
TIGHTLY CONTROLLED BORDERS.
ONE OF THOSE ACTIVISTS IS KANG
CHOL-HWAN, A NORTH KOREAN
DEFECTOR.
IN 1992, KANG SAYS HE BRIBED A
BORDER GUARD AND FLED ACROSS THE
BORDER INTO CHINA-- THE ROUTE
MOST DEFECTORS USE TO ESCAPE.
>> (translated): WE ARE PEOPLE
WHO LIVED IN ABSENCE OF FREEDOM.
WE KNOW HOW PRECIOUS IT IS.
I WANT TO GIVE ALL THESE PEOPLE
THEIR FREEDOM, AND THE
OPPORTUNITY TO LIVE AS HUMANS.
THESE ARE MY FRIENDS, MY FAMILY,
AND MY FELLOW NORTH KOREANS.
>> Reporter: TODAY, HE'S THE
DIRECTOR OF A NON-PROFIT CALLED
THE NORTH KOREA STRATEGY CENTER,
BASED IN SEOUL, SOUTH KOREA'S
CAPITAL.
FORMED IN 2007, HIS GROUP PAYS
CHINESE SMUGGLERS TO SEND USB
DRIVES FILLED WITH PROHIBITED,
OUTSIDE MEDIA INTO NORTH KOREA.
HE SAYS, EVEN THOUGH NORTH
KOREANS LACK INTERNET
CONNECTIONS, THEY CAN WATCH
SMUGGLED MOVIES AND TV SHOWS ON
THEIR COMPUTERS OR ON CHINESE
VIDEO PLAYERS WITH USB PORTS,
LIKE THESE, CALLED "NOTELS."
>> (translated): WE SEND
VARIOUS CONTENT FROM STORIES ON
HUMAN RIGHTS, GENERAL
INFORMATION ON SOUTH KOREA, TO
IMAGES DEPICTING THE AVERAGE
AMERICAN.
>> Reporter: OR A FICTIONAL
VERSION OF THE AVERAGE AMERICAN:
TV SHOWS LIKE "THE MENTALIST"
AND "DESPERATE HOUSEWIVES."
KANG SAYS SCENES LIKE THIS ONE
FROM "NCIS" THAT SHOW POLICE
OFFICERS READING SUSPECTS THEIR
RIGHTS ARE ESPECIALLY USEFUL.
>> (translated): IT HELPS THEM
TO REALIZE THAT IN THE OUTSIDE
WORLD, EVEN THE CRIMINALS HAVE
RIGHTS.
>> Reporter: THERE ARE A HANDFUL
OF GROUPS LIKE KANG'S OPERATING
UNDER THE BELIEF THAT EXPOSING
NORTH KOREANS TO OUTSIDE MEDIA
WEAKENS THE REGIME.
>> (translated): WHAT NORTH
KOREA REALLY FEARS, IS THEIR
PEOPLE BECOMING AWARE OF THEIR
SUPPRESSION.
>> Reporter: YOUR STRATEGY OF
SENDING THESE USB STICKS OVER
THERE, HOW DO YOU KNOW THAT
STRATEGY IS WORKING?
>> (translated): WE REGULARLY
MONITOR THE RESPONSE THROUGH
THOSE WHO ARE ABLE TO MOVE
ACROSS THE CHINA-NORTH KOREA
BORDER MORE EASILY.
IF WE FIND THAT A TELEVISION
DRAMA THAT WE SENT HAS BEEN
BANNED, WE KNOW THAT IT HAS BEEN
IMPACTFUL.
>> Reporter: IN FACT, GOVERNMENT
INTERVIEWS WITH DEFECTORS
ENTERING THE COUNTRY REVEAL THAT
MOST WERE EXPOSED TO SOME
OUTSIDE MEDIA IN RECENT YEARS.
KANG CHOL-HWAN ALSO KNOWS FROM
PERSONAL EXPERIENCE HOW OUTSIDE
MEDIA CAN DRAMATICALLY ALTER
ONE'S WORLD VIEW.
AS A YOUNG MAN IN NORTH KOREA,
HE GOT A HOLD OF A SMUGGLED
RADIO THAT PICKED UP "VOICE OF
AMERICA" AND OTHER BROADCASTS
FROM SOUTH KOREA.
HE SAYS THAT WAS HOW HE LEARNED
THE TRUTH ABOUT THE KOREAN WAR--
THAT NORTH KOREA HAD INSTIGATED
IT-- A FACT THE REGIME KEPT FROM
ITS CITIZENS.
>> (translated): IN NORTH
KOREA, WE'RE TAUGHT THAT IT WAS
THE U.S. AND SOUTH KOREA, WHO
ATTACKED THE NORTH.
I NEVER HAD ANY DOUBTS ABOUT
THIS INFORMATION BEFORE.
BUT AFTER LISTENING TO THE
RADIO, I LEARNED WHAT THE NORTH
KOREAN GOVERNMENT HAD BEEN
TELLING US ABOUT THE WAR WAS NOT
TRUE.
THIS MYTH ALLOWED THE NORTH TO
HOLD THE SOUTH RESPONSIBLE FOR
THE WAR.
>> Reporter: WHAT WOULD HAVE
HAPPENED IF YOU WERE CAUGHT
LISTENING TO FOREIGN BROADCASTS?
>> (translated): YOU WOULD
HAVE BEEN BRANDED AS AN ANTI-
REVOLUTIONARY.
THEN, YOU WOULD BE SENT TO AN
INTERNMENT CAMP, BUT IF YOU WERE
REPEATEDLY CAUGHT, YOU WOULD BE
EXECUTED.
>> Reporter: KIM HEUNG-KWANG
KNOWS THAT RISK WELL.
HE'S ALSO A DEFECTOR LIVING IN
SOUTH KOREA.
BUT IN THE NORTH, HE ACTUALLY
WORKED FOR A GOVERNMENT TASK
FORCE THAT WENT DOOR TO DOOR
CONFISCATING SMUGGLED OUTSIDE
MEDIA.
>> (translated): WHEN WE
CAUGHT THESE PERPETRATORS, I
FELT A SENSE OF PROTECTING OUR
NATION'S MORALS, AND MAKING THE
NATION SAFER.
>> Reporter: HE SAYS MANY PEOPLE
HE CAUGHT SPENT MONTHS OR YEARS
IN PRISON CAMPS, WHICH HE NOW
REGRETS.
>> (translated): ONCE, WE
RECEIVED A CALL THAT THREE
UNIVERSITY-AGED KIDS WERE
WATCHING A MOVIE ON A CD.
WHEN WE GOT TO THE HOUSE, THEY
DIDN'T OPEN DOOR FOR US.
SO WE BROKE DOWN THE DOOR TO GET
INSIDE.
THESE KIDS WERE NOT CRIMINALS;
THEY DIDN'T STEAL, OR MURDER
ANYONE.
IT WAS DONE JUST TO PROVE THAT
THEY WERE IN POSSESSION A
FOREIGN MOVIE.
AND IT WAS DONE IN SUCH BRUTAL
FASHION.
WHEN I THINK ABOUT IT NOW, I AM
VERY ASHAMED.
>> Reporter: OVER TIME, KIM
BEGAN TO TAKE A HUGE RISK--
KEEPING AND SHARING THE MEDIA
HE'D CONFISCATED.
HE ALSO STARTED READING BANNED
BOOKS-- LIKE "ALL THE SHAH'S
MEN" ABOUT THE 1953 COUP IN
IRAN-- THAT MADE HIM QUESTION
THE REGIME.
THEN IN 2003, KIM WAS CAUGHT BY
THE GOVERNMENT FOR LENDING
MOVIES TO A FRIEND.
HE WAS SENTENCED TO A YEAR OF
HARD LABOR.
>> (translated): AT FIRST, I
THOUGHT THAT I HAD MADE A
MISTAKE.
I THOUGHT THAT AS A GOVERNMENT
OFFICIAL WHO WAS IN CHARGE OF
PROTECTING NORTH KOREA'S LAWS, I
HAD DONE A POOR JOB.
BUT, TIME ON THE FARM WAS
STRENUOUS, AND UNRELENTING.
I BEGAN TO QUESTION WHY I WAS
SUFFERING SO MUCH.
>> Reporter: WHEN HE WAS
RELEASED IN 2004, KIM SAYS, HE
DECIDED TO DEFECT, TAKING
ANOTHER RISK BY BRIBING A NORTH
KOREAN BORDER GUARD TO LET HIM
CROSS INTO CHINA.
TODAY, KIM RUNS "NORTH KOREAN
INTELLECTUALS SOLIDARITY,"
ANOTHER GROUP THAT TRAFFICS
OUTSIDE MEDIA INTO NORTH KOREA.
KIM TAKES A DIFFERENT APPROACH
BY MAKING HIS OWN VIDEOS
RECORDING OF SOUTH KOREAN HOMES
AND MARKETS TO SHOW NORTH
KOREANS HOW WELL OTHER PEOPLE
LIVE.
ALSO A COMPUTER SCIENCE
PROFESSOR, HE'S DEVELOPED A
STEALTH USB DRIVE THAT CAN AVOID
DETECTION BY APPEARING EMPTY
WHEN INITIALLY CONNECTED TO A
COMPUTER.
>> (translated): BUT THE NORTH
KOREAN GOVERNMENT BECAME AWARE
OF THIS STEALTH DRIVE AND
CREATED A PROGRAM THAT WAS ABLE
TO DETECT THIS USB.
IN RETALIATION, I CREATED
SOFTWARE THAT WOULD BLOCK THE
PROGRAM, AND IT EVENTUALLY
BECAME GAME OF CAT AND MOUSE.
>> Reporter: DO YOU WORRY THAT
YOU'RE PUTTING NORTH KOREAN'S
LIVES IN DANGER IF THEY GET
CAUGHT WITH SOME OF THESE
MATERIALS?
>> (translated): ALL NORTH
KOREANS KNOW THE RISK OF ALL
THEIR ACTIONS.
DESPITE THE POTENTIAL PUNISHMENT
THEY KNOW THEY WILL RECEIVE,
THERE ARE MANY PEOPLE WHO
ACTIVELY SEARCH FOR THESE
MATERIALS.
>> Reporter: YEONMI PARK GREW UP
IN NORTH KOREA AND SAYS WATCHING
OUTSIDE VIDEOS CHANGED HER
PERSPECTIVE OF THE WORLD.
SHE SAYS, AS A CHILD, ALL SHE
LEARNED FROM WATCHING STATE-RUN
MEDIA WAS LOVE FOR THE KIM
REGIME AND NORTH KOREA.
>> THEY DON'T SHOW US IF OUR
TEAM LOSES.
WE WIN THE OLYMPICS.
WE WIN THE, YOU KNOW, WORLD
CUPS.
WE WIN EVERYTHING.
>> Reporter: PARK SAYS NORTH
KOREAN SCHOOL CHILDREN ARE FED A
STEADY DIET OF ANTI-AMERICAN
PROPAGANDA AND ARE TAUGHT TO
REFER TO AMERICANS AS"
BASTARDS."
>> IN MATH BOOK SAYS, YOU KNOW,
THERE ARE FOUR AMERICAN
BASTARDS.
YOU KILL TWO OF THEM.
THEN HOW MANY AMERICAN BASTARDS
LEFT TO KILL.
AND AS A CHILD I HAD TO SAY,
"TWO AMERICAN BASTARDS."
AND THAT WAS MY EDUCATION.
>> Reporter: BUT PARK SAW A
DIFFERENT VIEW OF THE OUTSIDE
WORLD THROUGH DVDs HER PARENTS
WERE ABLE TO BUY ON THE BLACK
MARKET.
HOLLYWOOD MOVIES LIKE "PRETTY
WOMAN," AND "TITANIC."
SHE SAYS WATCHING THESE MOVIES
WERE MORE THAN ENTERTAINMENT;
THEY MADE HER THINK DIFFERENTLY
ABOUT HER LIFE IN NORTH KOREA.
>> I NEVER HEARD MY FATHER WAS
TELLING MY MOTHER THAT I LOVE
YOU.
BUT IN THE MOVIE MAN TELLS WOMAN
I LOVE YOU.
RIGHT?
AND THOSE THINGS WERE NEVER
ALLOWED FOR US TO EXPRESS TO
EACH OTHER THAN THE DEAR LEADER.
SO OF COURSE WATCHING THIS
INFORMATION HELPED ME TO
UNDERSTAND THE OUTSIDE WORLD A
LITTLE BIT, THAT I REALIZED
THERE WAS SOME HUMANITY OUT
THERE.
>> Reporter: THAT UNDERSTANDING
GAVE HER HOPE FOR A BETTER LIFE.
AFTER HER FATHER WAS IMPRISONED
BY THE GOVERNMENT FOR SMUGGLING
INDUSTRIAL METALS, HER FAMILY
FELL INTO POVERTY AND FACED
STARVATION.
IN 2003, WHEN SHE WAS 13, PARK'S
FAMILY PAID A SMUGGLER TO SNEAK
THEM ACROSS THE BORDER INTO
CHINA.
>> I THINK THAT WAS THE MOST
HORRIFYING PART IN MY JOURNEY--
THE UNCERTAINTY, THAT YOU DON'T
KNOW WHEN YOU WILL BE SAFE AGAIN
IN YOUR LIFETIME.
SO WE WERE JUST RUNNING AND
HOPING SOMEHOW THINGS MIGHT WORK
OUT.
>> Reporter: IT TOOK TWO YEARS
TRAVELLING THROUGH CHINA,
SOMETIMES ON FOOT, BUT
EVENTUALLY, THEY MADE IT TO
SOUTH KOREA.
TODAY, PARK IS STUDYING AT
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY IN NEW YORK
CITY, WITH ACCESS TO A WORLD OF
INFORMATION.
>> EVERY STORY WAS PROPAGANDA TO
BRAINWASH US ABOUT THE KIM
DICTATORS.
>> Reporter: AND SHE'S BECOME A
HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVIST, SPEAKING
OUT AGAINST THE NORTH KOREAN
REGIME.
SHE ALSO WROTE A MEMOIR ABOUT
HER ESCAPE.
>> NOW I AM FREE.
AND I HAVE TO LEARN ALL ABOUT
FREEDOM.
WHAT DOES IT MEAN, ACTUALLY?
>> Reporter: PARK SAYS ALTHOUGH
THE HOLLYWOOD MOVIES SHE WATCHED
AS A CHILD DIDN'T FULLY PREPARE
HER FOR LIFE OUTSIDE THE
COUNTRY, THEY CAN BE A SPARK FOR
HER FELLOW NORTH KOREANS.
>> OTHER LIVES CAN BE POSSIBLE
ON THIS EARTH. BUT THEY JUST
DON'T HAVE INFORMATION RIGHT
NOW.
THEY DON'T KNOW WHO THEY ARE.
AND THEY DON'T KNOW WHAT THEY
ARE CAPABLE OF.
SO WE JUST HAVE TO SHOW THEM
WHAT THEY CAN BE.
>>READ MORE ABOUT THE HISTORY
OF SMUGGLING MEDIA INTO NORTH
KOREA.
VISIT pbs.org/newshour.
>> Stewart: AMERICA'S OPIOID
EPIDEMIC NOW CLAIMS 33,000 LIVES
A YEAR.
DATA FROM THE CENTERS FOR
DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION
RELEASED THURSDAY SHOWS THAT
OPIOIDS, INCLUDING HEROIN AND
PRESCRIPTION PAINKILLERS, CAUSE
ALMOST TWO-THIRDS OF ALL DRUG-
RELATED OVERDOSES IN THE U.S.
IN THE PAST YEAR, HEROIN DEATHS
WENT UP 20%, AND NOW EXCEED GUN
HOMICIDES.
AND SINCE 2000, 300,000
AMERICANS HAVE DIED FROM AN
OPIOID OVERDOSE.
JOINING ME NOW FROM ATLANTA IS
DR. TOM FRIEDEN, THE DIRECTOR OF
THE CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL
AND PREVENTION.
>> DOCTOR WITH SO MUCH ATTENTION
BEING PAID TO OPIOID ABUSE IN
THE RECENT YEARS, WHY ARE WE
SEEING SUCH IS ALARMING
STATISTIC?
>> FIRST, DOCTORS ARE
PRESCRIBING TOO MANY OPIOIDS,
FOR TOO LONG AND FOR TOO MANY
PATIENTS.
THIS IS THE FIRST ISSUE.
ALSO SYNTHETIC FENTANYL NESS
COMPETITIVE AND WIDE --
INEXPENSIVE AND WIDELY
AVAILABLE.
THAT'S WHY THE ISSUE CONTINUES
TO GET WORSE.
>> Stewart: NEW PROTOCOL FOR
DOCTORS ABOUT BRIBING OPIOIDS,
BUT THERE IS ANOTHER ELEMENT OF
THIS THE MENTAL HEALTH
COMPONENT.
WHAT'S BEING DONE WITH THAT?
>> FIRST, WE NEED TO CARE BETTER
FOR PATIENTS WHO HAVE PAIN AND
PATIENTS WHO HAVE ADDICTION.
OUTSIDE OF END OF LIFE OR CANCER
CARE, OPIATES ARE NOT TO BE
FIRST LINE TREATMENT AND IN FACT
NOT ONLY GO THEY NOT PERFORM --
DO THEY NOT PERFORM BETTER THAN
OTHER DRUGS BUT THEY MAY
ACTUALLY INCREASE PATIENTS' PAIN
IN THE LONG TERM.
FOR ADDICTION, WE NEED TO
RECOGNIZE THAT ADDICTION IS A
CHRONIC ILLNESS, IT IS A
CHALLENGE, IT IS MUST BE VERY
MORE READILY AVAILABLE ENTRY
INTO ADDICTION TREATMENT
SERVICES.
>> HAS THERE BEEN INCIDENCE OF
THIS IN THE PAST?
>> WE DON'T SEE CAUSES OF DEATH
SKYROCKET THIS WAY IN THE U.S.
FROM NONCOMMUNICABLE DISEASES.
IT IS UNUSUAL AND I WOULD SAY
UNPRECEDENTED.
IT IS A REFLECTION OF THE ARE
PRESCRIPTION OF OPIOIDS AND THAT
TRACKS DIRECTLY, I WISH TIMES
THAT DOCTORS WHO MAY NOT KNOW
THAT THEIR PATIENT HAS OVERDOSED
WOULD BE INFORMED EVERY TIME A
PRESCRIPTION THEY WROTE RESULTS
IN A FATAL OR NEAR FATAL
OVERDOSE.
>> 20th CENTURY CURES ACT WAS
SIGNED INTO LAW THIS WEEK AND
THERE IS A BILLION DOLLARS
ALLOCATED SPECIFICALLY FOR THIS
ISSUE.
IN YOUR MIND WHERE SHOULD THAT
MONEY GO IMMEDIATELY?
>> THERE IS NO EASY ANSWER HERE.
THERE IS NO MAGIC BULLET TO
REVERSE THIS EPIDEMIC.
WE DO NEED TO REVERSE THE
EPIDEMIC THAT EVERY PERSON WHO
GETS PRESCRIBED GETS THE
OPPORTUNITY TO ENTER TREATMENT
THERE AND THEN BECAUSE WE KNOW
THEY ARE IN MAJOR RISK OF
ANOTHER OVERDOSE.
THE TREATMENT PROGRAMS OUT THERE
WE CAN HELP THEM TO IMPROVE
THEIR PERFORMANCE AND INCREASE
THE PROPORTION OF PEOPLE WHO
STAY OFF DRUGS.
>> Stewart: DR. TOM FRIEDEN,
DIRECTOR OF THE CENTERS FOR
DISEASE CONTROL, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
IT HAS BEEN A BIG YEAR FOR ROCK
N' ROLL LEGEND BRUCE
SPRINGSTEEN.
STAGING ONE OF THE HIGHEST-
GROSSING CONCERT TOURS, WINNING
THE PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF
FREEDOM, AND PUBLISHING HIS
AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
THE NEWSHOUR'S JEFFREY BROWN SAT
DOWN WITH SPRINGSTEEN FOR A TWO
PART INTERVIEW THAT BEGINS
TOMORROW ON THE NEWSHOUR.
>> ARE IF YOU'RE A BAND LEADER,
YOU KNOW YOU NEED THAT TYPE OF
DISCIPLINE AND DEDICATION IN THE
GUYS YOU'RE PLAYING WITH.
WE CAME FROM WHERE
PROFESSIONALISM WAS IN THE A
DIRTY WORD AS I SAY, AND SO WE
WORKED LIKE THE OLD SOUL BANDS
WORKED, VERY INTENSELY AND VERY
METHODICALLY.
>> YOU EVEN CALL IT A BENEVOLENT
DICTATORSHIP.
>> THAT'S WHAT IT IS.
SMALL UNIT DEMOCRACY, I FOUND
EARLY ON, DIDN'T WORK FOR ME.
THE BAND CONTRIBUTES ENORMOUSLY.
I WOULDN'T HAVE GOTTEN ANYWHERE
NEAR WHERE I AM WITHOUT THEM.
>> YOU ARE SORT OF A CONTROL
FREAK?
>> YES I AM.
LESS NOW THAN I USED TO BE.
BECAUSE YOU ARE INSECURE WHEN
YOU'RE YOUNG YOU'RE VERY
CONTROLLING NOW I'M MODERATELY
CONTROLLING I WOULD SAY.
>> Brown: YOU USE THAT WORD
INSECURE, FRANKLY IN READING
THIS, IT IS SORT OF A MIX OF
INSECURITIES AND SENSE OF SELF.
>> THAT'S THE ARTIST'S WAY.
>> Brown: THAT'S THE ARTIST'S
WAY.
EXPLAIN THAT TO ME.
>> MOST ARTISTS I KNOW HAD ONE
PERSON IN THEIR LIFE WHO TOLD
THEM THEY WERE THE SECOND COMING
OF THE BABY JESUS AND ANOTHER
WHO TOLD THEM THEY WERTH WEREN'T
WORTH ANYTHING AND THEY BELIEVED
THEM BOTH.
YOU GO THROUGH LIFE IN PURSUIT
OF BOTH OF THOSE THINGS,
PROVING BOTH OF THOSE ARE
TRUE.
YOU FEEL LIKE THE BURDEN OF
PROOF IS ON YOU.
>> Stewart: WATCH BRUCE
SPRINGSTEEN TOMORROW AND TUESDAY
ON THE NEWSHOUR.
FINALLY, ON TUESDAY, SCOTLAND
WILL UNVEIL PROPOSALS FOR IT
STAY IN THE EUROPEAN UNION.
SCOTLAND, ALONG WITH ENGLAND,
WALES, AND NORTHERN IRELAND
IS PART OF THE UNITED KINGDOM
BUT 62 PERCENT OF SCOTTISH
VOTERS REJECTED U.K.'S
REFERENDUM TO EXIT EXIT THE E.U.
SCOTLAND SAYS A BREXIT WOULD BE
A "NATIONAL DISASTER," COSTING
IT 80,000 JOBS OVER TEN YEARS.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NewsHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M ALISON STEWART, GOOD NIGHT.